Okay.
I'm missing.
We are live right now on YouTube. So,
good morning, Dr. Seyfried. How are you?
It's a real real honor to be with you.
Oh, thank you very much, Carlos. It's a
It's a pleasure to be here with you.
Thank you so much for your time. Thank
you for so much for your generosity. And
thank you for your work. I've been a
follower of your work. And for me, it's
a
it's really amazing to have the the
chance and the opportunity to be talking
with you and to be talking everything
related with cancer.
Something that people
for forget is that cancer right now is
the second leading cause of death all
over the world.
And it doesn't respect social class,
gender, race, anything, country,
anything.
For how many years have you been
studying cancer? And what has been
the increase of the rate of cancer that
you've seen all over the years that
you've been studying cancer?
Yeah, well, thank you very much for that
question. I've been
actively investigating
Well,
let's put it this way, probably 45
years.
Um
Initially,
um the research was predominantly
uh asking
questions about biochemistry and and and
lipid biochemistry on cancer cells. It
wasn't really
it wasn't really focused on developing a
treatment protocol.
Uh when when I when I first looked into
cancer, like like everyone else, we
thought it was a genetic disease.
And many of us were looking at different
biomarkers and things like this. It
wasn't until
uh nine
about 2000, the year 2000, that
uh we started to consider
underlying causes of cancer and the
actual mechanism by which tumor
dysregulated cell growth was was
occurring.
And that's when we linked up with what
Otto Warburg,
uh the German
chemist, had had long long ago said that
this is a
uh a disease of energy metabolism. And
our own research
over these decades has strongly
supported uh what Otto Warburg had
originally described. And um we we're
we're in the process of bringing the
field of cancer back to its where it
should have rightfully been, which is
that this is a metabolic disorder. And
we have strong evidence supporting what
Warburg said. And not only that, we have
new evidence that Warburg did not know
about that even more strongly supports
the view that cancer is a metabolic
disease. Once you once you realize that,
then the strategy uh for managing the
disease becomes far more different and
less toxic than than what we are
currently doing. So, yeah, so we've been
investigating all aspects of both the
initiation, the origin, the management,
and also the aspects of prevention.
Because once you know the new theory
that drives the the the research and
actually underlies what the disease is,
then then there's going to be an
enormous paradigm change. And death uh
from cancer will be significantly
reduced once once the field
understands what what what it really is.
How much I mean
I've been physicians saying that
the problem is
that cancer hasn't been growing at all.
That it's just being more diagnosed. So,
we have more tools for for early
diagnosis today, which is true. There
are there are tools for making an early
diagnosis.
But but we haven't seen cancers in kids
like we do now. We haven't seen cancers
in in adolescents and or in young adults
as we see today.
What are your thoughts on
Yeah, well, you know, that's that's an
important point. I I I think the
the
accumulation of toxins in the
environment,
the types of foods that we're eating, uh
you know, all of these things impact.
There's not one single
cause of cancer. As a matter of fact, I
I went through and identified all of the
the what we call risk factors, okay? Um
there are many many risk factors. Mostly
in the environment, diet lifestyle
issues,
uh rare inherited mutations. Uh all all
of the risk factors that we have
identified all impact one way or another
on the function of the mitochondrion in
the cytoplasm of the cell to generate
energy metabolism. So, whatever the risk
factors happen to be, it's a chronic
problem of energy metabolism. And I And
I think that
the environments all around the world
are becoming more contaminated with
different things. So, you have
contaminants and you have diet lifestyle
issues. You have lack of exercise
issues. You have all these different
issues uh all impacting
on different people, different ages,
um and different
cell populations leading to what we now
know is a as you've already indicated,
Carlos, it's a second leading cause of
death. And in China, it already has
surpassed heart disease as as the
leading cause of death.
Uh when I was in Shanghai a couple of
years ago, uh I was told that we in
China there's 8,000 uh 100 people dying
um each day from from cancer. In the
United States, it's over almost 1,700
people a day. It's 6 1,680 people a day
dying from cancer in the United States.
And And I think I think we we have to
look at
um
at at the death. We We have to look at
numbers of people dying
because that ultimately tells you
how we are doing
in the war on cancer. How many people
are dying from this disease? And the
answer is it's increasing.
It's not decreasing. It's increasing.
Yes, there are more cases. And that
might relate back to your question.
Maybe we are diagnosing a lot more
cancers. That's true. But we're also
experiencing more death
uh from cancer. So, in other words,
we're not making any major progress in
reducing the number of deaths from
cancer. Um and that's why, you know, you
can say, "Well, we're getting we're
diagnosing more." That's true. But we're
also we're seeing more,
maybe due to improved diagnosis, but
we're also seeing more deaths.
So, you one thing if we could diagnose
better and reduce deaths, but we're not.
And And so, why are all these folks
dying
uh from cancer?
And the And one of the major reasons is
it's mis- misunderstood as a genetic
disease when it's not a genetic disease.
So, the therapies that people are using
that you hear a lot about,
immunotherapy,
you know, targeted therapies. Targeting
What are you targeting? Um because
obviously, whatever you're targeting is
not reducing the death rate.
Um and once you realize that the tumor
cells can't live without fermentation,
uh what drives fermentation? Two fuels,
glucose and the amino acid glutamine.
How many hospitals are targeting glucose
and glutamine simultaneously?
They can't The cancer cell cannot burn
fatty acids or ketone bodies.
How many How many clinics around the
world are transitioning their cancer
patients to nutritional ketosis and then
simultaneously targeting the two fuels
that are known to drive the dysregulated
growth? And the answer is no one.
No one that we know of anywhere on the
planet is targeting cancer and using can
as as a metabolic disease. So, the
So, the problem continues. The beat goes
on. People are dying.
That's amazing. It's fascinating how you
how you make it so easy to understand.
You You were saying that you've pointed
out
several risk factors that they all merge
into the same ultimate condition, which
is a lack of energy and mitochondrial
production.
Could you tell us which are those risk
factors that you might that people are
maybe don't know in order to have a
higher risk of getting cancer?
Well, I think right now one of the
biggest risk factors is obesity.
Um Obesity is linked to type 2 diabetes.
Obesity is linked to systemic
inflammation. Um Systemic inflammation,
chronic systemic inflammation,
uh can damage energy metabolism in a
certain population of cells in a certain
organ. It can vary from one person
to another. But um obesity has now
replaced smoking as one of the top risk
factors for cancer. So you have that
you have chronic inflammation
intermittent hypoxia.
Chemical carcinogens exposure. To
chemical carcinogens radiation.
Viral infections hepatitis papilloma
virus hepatitis viruses these all damage
mitochondria and and And at the same
time you have several overlaps. Aging
populations overlapping with obesity
with chronic inflammation hypoxia all of
these all of these Provocative secondary
what we call secondary risk factors can
impact any one of which or together can
increase the risk. Of cancer. So you
have to be
aware of of of of the risk factors. And
then once you know that all of these
risk factors in some way or another
compromise. Ability of the of the cell
to generate energy through respiration
breathing oxygen essentially.
You can then
Institute. Practices or approaches to
try to improve
the function of respiration which Which
means that
You know we we talk about prevention.
Unfortunately most people to be honest
with you most people don't care.
About prevention. They come because they
they get cancer and now they want a
treatment. I know they said I should
have done this and I should have done
that to reduce my risk but I have cancer
now what are you going to do for me?
And and when you see an obesity
worldwide obesity epidemic. It tells us
that the that
if people were really really interested
in reducing cancer you would not have an
obesity epidemic because people would
fear obesity as a major risk factor for
the development of cancer but the fact
that we have an obesity epidemic says
that most people don't care or don't
know.
So
so you have these particular issues but
we we clearly know what causes cancer
and we clearly know how to manage
cancer. The problem is it's not being
instituted in any any major hospital
anywhere. And that's the problem right
there.
And when you when you say this risk
factors go and interfere with the
mitochondria so that people remember
that the mitochondria is that part
inside the cell where we produce
One of the functions because it's not
the only one where we produce
Energy when we take oxygen and glucose
to produce energy and most of the most
of the cases or the easiest way for the
cell to produce energy.
That the cell starts having a lack.
Of
energy production or lack of of the
Normal function of the mitochondria how
does it work those all those risk
factors go into the same pathway and and
at the end they they produce exactly the
same thing.
Well obviously the
Energetically they're very similar.
Obviously if that if that if those
combinations or singular risk factor
would would
Would damage mitochondria in a liver
cell or a colon cell or a lung cell.
You would get disregulated growth from
the cells of those tissues if it were to
happen in the glial population of the
brain you would get a disregulated
growth of the glial cells under the
microscope. They would look different
from each other. Because one is from the
brain one is from the lung one is from
the colon one would be from the bladder
but if you look at them biochemically.
They're all very very similar to each
other in that they're all struggling to
get energy. From sources other than
oxygen.
So they
they ferment they use they use the
ancient pathway of fermentation this is
energy without oxygen.
And how do how do we know that because
we Warburg and others.
We were able to take cancer cells and
grow them in hypoxia without oxygen.
That's one of the unique things about
cancer cells they all can grow in the
absence of oxygen. None of us. Can can
live in the absence of oxygen. And the
best way to to demonstrate that. Is we
know the the drug cyanide. And we know
that people that would take cyanide to
commit suicide die very very quickly.
Because they shut down the energy
oxidative energy metabolism in all cells
of the body and the person dies real
quick.
You can pour cyanide on a tumor cell it
doesn't die at all.
So it lives it can live in cyanide it
can live without oxygen and this
Cuts across all the different kinds of
tumors. We all know brain tumors colon
tumors bladder tumors breast tumors they
all can live in cyanide and without
oxygen. So so the question that is is oh
wow they're they're living without
oxygen but you you have to have energy
without energy nothing can grow so where
you say where are these cancer cells
getting their energy from. If they don't
use oxygen. And they're fermenting how
do you know they're fermenting well they
throw out lactic acid you shouldn't be
throwing out lactic acid if you hold
your breath long enough you turn purple.
Your your whole body starts burning
lactic you start dumping out lactic
acid. So the cancer cell is dumping out
lactic acid why because it can't respire
it cannot get energy effectively from
oxygen.
So the waste products of normal
metabolism are CO2 and water how do we
know that. Every breath that I exhale
every breath that you exhale has CO2 and
water moisture in there okay it's water
and CO2 is the waste product of normal
life.
Cancer cells do not produce that they
produce lactic acid they're producing
and succinic acid another waste product
they're producing acidified
acid molecules. This is because they
cannot respire so the waste products of
fermentation are lactic acid and
succinic acid. Creating an acidified
microenvironment.
And you know
so that automatically tells you what
these cancer cells are doing so how do
you manage them you take away the fuels
that are there for fermentation. And
those fuels that we have and others have
identified are glucose the sugar
glucose. And the amino acid glutamine in
in in normal cells you're 100% right
Carlos that that
glucose is metabolized to pyruvate.
Pyruvate enters the mitochondria and is
fully oxidized to CO2 and water.
The problem is the the mitochondria in
the tumor cell is broken. It doesn't
work. So a lot of the pyruvate is is
reduced to lactate lactic acid and it's
dumped into the microenvironment. Some
of it does enter the mitochondria but it
comes out as citrate for the synthesis
of lipids but it's not making energy ATP
is the currency of energy everything
revolves on energy without energy
nothing can grow.
So you have to say how are these tumor
cells getting their energy they're using
fermentation. They can get energy
without oxygen. So that tells us that
that tells us clearly. What's keeping
these cells alive. So and it's not that
much of a reach to say if we take away
glucose and transition the body to
ketones all the normal cells in our body
can switch from glucose to ketone not
the cancer cell. Because you you need a
good respiration to burn ketones and
fatty acids cancer cells cannot burn
fatty acids. They store them as lipid
drops in the cytoplasm clear indication
that they're not burning fatty acids. So
we know what do they burn to stay alive
the sugar glucose and the amino acid
glutamine and those two fuels are the
drivers of the disregulated growth that
we see it's not that complicated. When
you view cancer as a genetic disease it
is hopelessly complicated. Thousands and
tens of thousands of different mutations
all kinds of signaling pathways are
abnormal so when you look at it in that
in that perspective it's a hopelessly
complicated disease when you look at it
as a metabolic mitochondrial metabolic
disease is far less complicated.
So in this case obviously and it's been
part of your work you suggest that
people start on a ketogenic diet or to
start being in in a
Ketogenic state although you can you can
be in a ketogenic state by fasting or by
exercising and fasting without being on
a ketogenic diet. Mhm. Um.
My question is is there I mean if
If if I'm if I'm on a ketogenic diet you
say that when the body is on ketones or
in a ketogenic diet or in a ketogenic
state by fasting.
That's the state in which
the
Tumor cells are not going to find any
way of energy. From glucose or from
glutamine so. The first thing would be
for that person even either to if
they're going to be in a ketogenic state
or in ketosis by fasting or or training
or in a ketogenic diet.
To avoid completely. Glutamine they have
to avoid completely glutamine is there a
way in which or or try to eat low
glutamine proteins or. No no that won't
work.
Glutamine is is the most abundant amino
acid in our body.
It's the highest amino acid in the
blood.
It's absolutely essential for the
function of our immune system the gut
the urea cycle. I mean it's a it's an
absolute
critical amino acid.
Um.
George Cahill who ran the diabetes the
Joslin diabetes center fasted folks for
more than two weeks.
Two to three weeks. And then you began
to see not only the glucose go way down
and ketones go up, but the glutamine
started to go down.
But, you know, um we need drugs and and
um
we we we have drugs that work really
really well
uh to target glutamine. Um they have
been used in the past, but
like any tool,
uh you really need to know how to use
the tool that you have. If you try to
target glutamine with a drug by itself,
uh you're not going to get the uh
outcome
uh for several reasons.
You need to target glucose and glutamine
together. You can't target one
uh you actually targeting glucose works
a hell of a lot better than by itself
than targeting glutamine by itself.
But, if you target both together, you
get the real massive benefit uh from
from the shutting down all the energy
metabolism in the cancer cell, the
majority of energy metabolism in the
cancer cell.
The issue, of course, with glutamine
targeting,
you you have to you have to appreciate
the importance of glutamine for the gut
and the immune system and uh other
systems. So, that's why we developed the
press-pulse metabolic therapy where we
press glucose down
heavy. Body doesn't need glucose. We can
switch to ketones. Uh we can replace
glucose with ketones. Glutamine is an
essential for uh a lot of things. So, we
can't hit glutamine too hard for too
long.
So, what we do is we take drugs and we
use them at a lower dosage and they
really really work well when the body is
in nutritional ketosis.
So, that's why we developed the glucose
ketone index calculator to allow cancer
patients to know, regardless of what
they eat, ketogenic diet, carnivore
diet, Mediterranean diet, vegan diet,
pescetarian diet, doesn't make any
difference. If you can get your glucose
down and your ketones up, then you can
strategically use glutamine inhibitors,
low dosages, uh dosage timing and
scheduling variations to degrade slowly
uh the tumor without without causing any
collateral damage or secondary toxicity.
And that's what we can achieve with a
with an appropriate understanding of
using press-pulse metabolic therapy. Uh
we've outlined uh we've outlined the the
the strategy for doing this, the
framework uh for doing this, and now we
are uh investigating on individual
case-by-case basis uh how these
strategies might work. So, once once we
uh have achieved our better
understanding of dosage timing and
scheduling with glutamine targeting
drugs, we can use any calorie-restricted
diet to bring the patient into
nutritional ketosis and then
strategically use glutamine any number
of glutamine inhibitors to uh degrade
slowly because the key is you want to
degrade and get rid of the tumor without
causing collateral or secondary damage,
pain, uh or anything like this to the
cancer patient. So, um and we can
achieve that uh
very I wouldn't say it's it's going to
be super simple, but it's certainly not
going to be that complex uh that because
we've seen it happen in some people.
I've seen, you know, some guy check
Guyton Bomb. Now, he did water-only
fasting. Water-only fasting
uh produces tremendous stress on the
tumor.
Uh I published the paper. It's called
autolytic cannibalism. When you reduce
the energy really low, the body is an
efficient machine. All of the organs in
our system are designed to work with
each other. Uh the the body is a is an
entire uh integrated system. And when
you start uh restricting nutrients,
making uh energy efficiency absolutely
essential for the survival of the whole,
and then you find a population of cells
uh deregulated in their growth, uh
wasting energy, not not energy
efficient, the body will turn on those
cells and use them as food for the rest
of the body.
So, once you can bring the body into a
state of nutritional ketosis, low low
glucose ketone index,
low doses of drugs, the body becomes
super energy efficient and will attack
the tumor. Uh the drugs will be killing
and they'll eat the tumor. The your own
body will dissolve and eat your own the
tumor for the good of the rest of the
body. It's unbelievable. So, uh um uh
oh, but you have to understand
evolutionary biology and you have to
understand systems physiology
to understand what I'm what I'm talking
about. Um but uh the these are the these
are the the evidence is is based on on
fundamental understanding of biological
processes. We understand that. And we
have seen these outcomes. And we know
uh that this is this is the future. What
I just described to you, if people want
to stay alive and they want to be able
to manage their cancer in a non-toxic
way, and physicians would like to do
this to treat their patients, they
better start understanding what I'm
saying because this is going to be the
future.
Absolutely. And And there there's
something that I think it's very
important for all the people that are
that are seeing this and is that
you pointed it out,
but we need to remember that we've been
studying cancer for over 60 or 70 years
with a lot of surgical procedures
that sometimes most of them sometimes
they work with a lot of immunotherapy,
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, which are
amazing what what they've done. We we
cannot say that it it hasn't done
anything at all.
But, they haven't reduced deaths, as you
just pointed out, deaths, which is what
we're really looking into,
in a big percentage. It's something that
it hasn't been that
uh effective as we
as everyone would like.
So, there are most other things that we
need to be addressing and prevention is
something that is very important. And
now that we're saying about prevention,
in your work, I mean, you you were
saying that uh being on a ketogenic diet
really helps
tumors to to the body to get rid of the
tumors or they so they can uh reduce.
But, is there a way in which I can use a
ketogenic diet or being in on ketogenic
states by by fasting, not being on a
diet, but by getting in and out from
ketosis by fasting in which they can
help me prevent cancer? Is that being
studied at any point or saying, "Look,
if you go into ketosis for
I don't know, for 2 days, for a week,
for a month, for I don't know, is that
being studied in something that people
can do on a basis or do we need to be on
a ketogenic diet forever?" No, no, no,
no, no. I I you know, let's be let's be
honest. Um
you know, cancer was extremely rare in
our um
ancestral populations. Those folks ever
we call them aboriginal kinds of folks
that live according to the traditional
ways, um cancer was extremely rare
in those in those uh societies. Uh we
know that from the work of um Albert
Schweitzer, the humanitarian physician,
who would study diseases in different
primitive populations.
And he would report the near absence of
cancer in certain groups of primitive
peoples living according to their
original
traditional diets and lifestyles.
Um
so, were these folks in in always in uh
ketosis? And sometimes they were.
So, um
uh in other words, if you if you don't
have many carbo highly processed
carbohydrates in your diet, if you're
eating plants and meat and things like
this and only occasionally will you
have uh availability seasonal uh fruits
and things like this, you're mostly
mostly in a state of semi-ketosis
anyway. Our Paleolithic ancestors
didn't have highly processed
carbohydrates in their diet. So, they
were always in a a state of ketosis of
one form or another. Um
ketone bodies enhance the energy
efficiency of the mitochondria.
They protect the mitochondria from
reactive oxygen uh damage, oxidative
stress.
So, uh so so cancer was rare, uh very
rare.
And um so, yeah, but I don't think today
in our societies,
uh
most people have access to highly
processed carbohydrates.
And they're less active today than we
were uh in the certainly in the
Paleolithic period. Uh there were no
automobiles. I mean, you needed to eat
you needed to kill kill whatever you're
going to be eating. Uh you didn't have
many chances to sit around, you know,
uh we don't have fast food uh
on every on every corner in those early
days of our existence on the planet.
Uh all of a sudden within the last 50
years, uh we've created an environment
uh that puts us at risk for all kinds of
different cancers. And not only cancer,
I mean, you got diabetes, you got
cardiovascular disease, you got obesity,
you got all these different chronic
diseases
that are exploding uh on the population.
But, you it's very difficult to get
cancer if you maintain healthy
mitochondria.
So, uh how do you do that? Okay,
periodic uh intermittent fasting,
exercise,
um
eating diets that are uh low in highly
processed carbohydrates. And it's easy
to say this,
but it's not easy to do it uh because
the many of the foods uh that are highly
processed
have been engineered
by food science and technology to taste
mass very good. Most folks think these
foods are very very tasty.
Um and I don't care what nationality you
are.
Uh Chinese, Mexican, German, English
these foods are all very very tasty that
we have created. In the past, some of
these kinds of things would only be
seasonal during festive festivals and
things like this. Now they're available
all the time and uh exercise is being
reduced. Um and you can see it. Uh
all these chronic diseases are coming as
the result of changes in diet and
lifestyle and uh exposure to chemicals
in the environment. So uh
people have to know uh to keep to
prevent cancer, diabetes, and a many of
these other chronic diseases, you got to
keep your mitochondria healthy.
So you keep your mitochondria healthy,
the probability of getting chronic
disease is reduced.
And you just said that for keeping the
mitochondria healthy, intermittent
fasting or time-restricted eating,
exercise, and managing the foods that
you eat are very important. Is there
anything else that you would like to
point out for people to know about any
other strategy in order to or a or a
supplement maybe that they can use in
order to have a healthy mitochondria?
Well, you know, that's why we come back
to the glucose ketone index. Um
it's a quantitative measure to know
whether you're in therapeutic ketosis or
not.
So uh they have the Keto Mojo meter you
can buy it from Amazon. They have uh you
know, uh Free Libre now. You can patch
something on your arm to measure glucose
or something along these lines. Um
there's probably going to be ketone
monitors coming out in the future. Uh so
you can take your cell phone and
immediately see your glucose ketone
index. And at least it allows people to
know um
you know, are they in a state of
ketosis? Uh therapeutic ketosis, which
is a a glucose ketone index of about
five 5.0 or below. But to kill cancer
cells, you got to get down to 2.0 or
below and and ideally 1.0 or below.
And people say, "Well, what are you
talking about?" And I say, "Well, you
got to get the meter and measure your
blood levels of glucose and ketones so
you know what the what zone you're in."
And the other interesting thing is
people say, "Well, can I eat this or how
will I know if I'm in the zone?" Well,
measure it. And then you can find out
what you can can and what you cannot
eat. What supplement you can take and
what supplement you should not take.
People say, "Well, I'm taking this. I'm
taking that." And I'm saying, "What does
it do to your glucose ketone index?" And
they say, "Oh, I never measured it."
Well, how the hell do you know whether
that's going to help you or not?
So what? I mean, it's not that
complicated, right? I mean, you got the
the meter, right? Where's the meter?
This thing.
Right?
The meters. You You buy the meter and
and you can uh figure out your own GKI.
So um uh
yeah, I mean, so this is all something
people can do. Then you takes the
mystery uh
uh out of what you're saying. So some
guys say, "Oh, I'm a I'm a vegetarian. I
can't eat any meat." Well, I don't care.
Then see if you can get your GKI down to
the same the same level as the guy who
eats meat.
So uh
and the and the Mediterranean guys. I
mean, we published a paper from a
a cancer patient with advanced lung
cancer that metastasized to his brain.
And my colleague Dr. Athanasios Even
Julio from Greece uh put this guy on a
calorie-restricted Mediterranean diet,
kept a low GKI.
And the guy's alive now 10 years after.
He should have been dead He should have
been dead 10 years ago and he's still
alive.
So uh brain cancer guy's on carnivore
diets. I mean, as long as you can keep a
low GKI, you have a chance to manage or
keep the tumor. I'm not even saying you
can cure the cancer. All I can say is
you can keep it in an indolent state a
far longer. And that's another thing
that people should realize. Everybody
wants a cure for cancer.
The idea is you got Yeah, it's great to
have a cure. But it's also great to be
able to live 10 or 20 years with the
cancer knowing that you have it and that
if you deviate too far from a from a
diet lifestyle, you may allow that thing
to grow back, but you can also keep it
in an indolent state if you know what to
do. And I've seen folks, I've spoken to
folks that can actually watch their
tumors grow faster as they take in
glucose. And as they reduce the glucose,
the damn tumor goes down again. It's
almost like a a thermometer.
It's like unbelievable. So uh once
people know about this, they they can
start managing their own cancer with the
uh by themselves. They'll know what's
going to make their tumor grow faster
and what's not.
You know, people say, "Well, I'm going
to go to a party." Well, go to after the
party, come back and measure your GKI.
And you'll be shocked it's up around 50
or 60. And you go and you got to try to
keep Well, you got to get that thing
back down again. But at least people
know they have a they have a they have a
an ability to take charge
uh of their own existence. And that's
one of the things about metabolic
therapy. A lot a lot of the approach
falls on the shoulders of the patient
themselves. They are ultimately
responsible for their existence. And
they if they participate, they know what
they're doing, they have a a
knowledgeable physician or health care
provider that understands the concepts
who can help and guide them along the
path, then you're going to be able to
manage the majority of cancers without
toxicity. Unfortunately, this
information that I'm sharing with you is
not known to the majority of either
patients or their caregivers.
Yeah.
Yeah, we don't we don't get that
information in medical school at all.
And I don't
I've been a physician for 14 or 15
years.
And
it hasn't been but we we didn't receive
any of that information and I bet you
that they're not giving this information
at all right now in any
any medical training or any
nutritionists or any anyone else.
It's It's been fascinating what you're
what you're saying because you're not
saying that being on a ketogenic diet or
being on ketosis is going to cure
cancer.
Which is maybe one of the things that
people get on their minds and they just
wanted to evaporate. And I'm done and
I'm back to being to party and being the
same as I as I was.
Because we're always in a state of
doctor, cure me of whatever I'm getting
because it didn't have anything to do
with my lifestyle. And just cure me and
do what you must and so I can go back
back in track back back to what I was
doing before.
It's very interesting what you're saying
is that being on a ketogenic diet or
being on on chronic ketosis
is going to help me
have that tumor controlled or to shrink
a little bit so it's in order to be
controlled so it doesn't keep on growing
and it doesn't it won't give me all of
the complications or even give me
metastasis if if that's what we're
looking for.
Um
So does that mean that that person
should be
aiming
to have a lifestyle
to be to have an index under two, a
glucose ketone index under two through
most of their lives?
Well, they're on treatment. Is that
something that people should be looking
for?
Well, it would
Yeah.
No, I I I don't think so. Um No, no,
when they have cancer. When they have
cancer. Oh, if they have cancer.
Well, you know
Yeah, I've seen I've seen a number of
people. I mean, you can
I always say speak to Pablo Kelly who
came to me in 2014 with a glioblastoma.
And he took no radiation, chemo, or or
um steroids, or any any traditional
thing.
Uh he had the tumor debulked 3 years
after um they said he was going to be
dead in 9 months if he didn't do
anything. But he's he's still alive 9
years out. His tumor is still there in
his brain.
He's had two surgeries.
Um his diet and lifestyle keep a low
GKI,
uh but not always. Uh he he he
occasionally, you know, flips back
uh up. But he understands that
if he keeps his GKI high high, his uh if
the if it if it goes up higher, he knows
the tumor is going to grow.
And he's seen it twice already do that.
So he's pretty become pretty conscious
uh of knowing what he has to do to stay
in his zone. Now, there are other folks
uh who really, you know, bit down on the
water fasting and doing all these kinds
of things,
uh keep getting a strong ketosis and
and carnivore eating without any
carbohydrates and this kind of stuff.
And they have achieved uh
I I don't know if it's resolution.
The they can't find the cancer anymore.
Um what does that mean? You know, people
people ask me, "How do I know if I'm
cured?"
And I said, "Well, if you die at 97
years old from heart disease, you
probably were cured of your cancer." Um
and if you had cancer at 35 or 45 and
you were on a metabolic therapy
and you died of old age and you the
cancer never came back,
then we would know you were you were
cured. But at any time, we don't know.
It could come back in 10 years or 15
years and and things like this like it
happens in with traditional treatments.
People say, "Oh, if it hasn't come back
in 5 years, you're cured." But in 6
years, it comes back and it's and it
kills you. Um you know, what what's
going on with that? So I I just think
that there is a way to manage the
deregulated cell growth is what the
definition of cancer is. We know that
the cancer ferments. It needs glucose
and glutamine. So if we can if we can
deprive those fuels
uh to the cell, then they're not going
to be able to grow very very fast.
Doesn't mean you get rid of it
completely, but you're also taking uh
something that was highly aggressive and
potentially uh life-threatening and
bringing it back into a state of
management. And I and I think that when
we talk about cancer, we talk about
managing cancer. I don't talk about
curing cancer. I talk about managing
cancer. And I think if you can provide
long-term management with a higher qual
with a high quality of life, then what's
wrong with that? You know, um people
should know
they they there's ways to manage the the
the disease. If it goes away completely,
then feel good about it. And if but it
doesn't go away, you at least you know
how to control it. So, uh all of these
things are new knowledge that people
need to need to adjust uh their their
views on.
What are the things that you've
faced uh
more into having rejection from the
medical communities or from the
traditional oncologists or traditional
surgeons or all the traditional
therapies from
from cancer and uh
and what are the things that you think
that we can do together in order to
bring these strategies into into
everyone's like into the spotlight?
Yeah, well, I think the biggest
resistance
doesn't come against um what I'm
writing, the science.
The science is solid. Um so, you're not
going to get
uh that concepts to be attacked like oh,
he doesn't know his science is we have
different we we've gone through
everything. We can't find a tumor cell
that can survive without glucose and
glutamine.
Um we we've interrogated these tumor
cells up and down. We've got preclinical
evidence.
The resistance comes when
people hear what I'm saying
and then they read my published papers
open access in some of the major
journals.
And then they go to their oncologists
and say, I would really like to do
metabolic therapy.
And the resistance comes from the
oncologist saying, I never heard of
that. How can it be right? If it were
right, I would have heard about it in
medical school. Uh where are the where
are the data from the clinical trials? I
can't do anything unless the system
tells me to do it. The American Medical
Association never told me that metabolic
therapy could replace uh radiation or
chemo. Until the medical establishment
tells me, I can't do anything. I'm
locked into doing standards of care. And
if that was so correct, the medical
establishment would tell me about that.
And the medical establishment is not
telling them about that.
And they're locked into doing to doing
what they're doing because they've been
trained to do that. So, you go up and
down the the the resistance is not
against the science. It's against the
practice. The practice of what how we
treat cancer patients. Um you know, I'm
not saying we don't do surgery. I think
there's a place for
there's a place for almost all the tools
that we have in the tool chest. You just
got to know when to use them in in the
right way to use them.
Surgeons can do a great job. They
Surgeons can cure cancer, believe that
if they get all of the tumor out of a
person's body, that person could be
effectively cured. The the issue I have
is that the surgeon needs to know that
if we implement metabolic therapy up
front, we can shrink the tumor down,
sharpen the margins around these these
dysregulated growth, and the surgeon can
feel more comfortable in knowing that he
not didn't get 90% of it, he got 100% of
it. So, but he needs to know that
there's a way to improve the outcome
that he does, not going in there like a
bull in a china shop and start chopping
into this tumor leading to fragments
that could get into the bloodstream
leading to metastasis. No, no, you got
to know what to do and how to do it. And
you know, surgeons are more concerned
about the techniques they use to uh
debulk a mass in somebody's body, not
the biological systems physiology that
they should also know about how to
improve the outcome of their surgical
procedures,
which can then be greatly enhanced. And
then
uh with radiation or chemo for well, I
think radiation could be used for
certain types of situations where it's
very hard to surgically debulk. But
again, radiation could have a much
greater therapeutic benefit if the tumor
shrunk and the inflammation is reduced
around the tumor giving the opportunity
for the beams to to to do a more
thorough examination I I I elimination.
And for brain cancer, I would never
recommend and I'm not a physician, I but
I know that when you irradiate
somebody's brain, invariably it makes it
much worse. And I think most of the poor
brain cancer patients are dying from the
radiation therapy. So, they that should
stop. Um but but immunotherapies,
chemotherapies, all of these things can
be done in the right context. Uh we're
we're finding when a when a when an
individual is in therapeutic ketosis,
the amounts of drugs chemo drugs can be
reduced by by half more than half
25 75% reduction in drose
and yet have and yet have much greater
therapeutic efficacy even at the lower
dosage. This means that you'll be able
to eliminate the tumors with minimal
toxicity because now you know how to put
these tumor cells at a at a tremendous
competitive uh disadvantage. How they
become now much more susceptible to the
tools that we have. We're just not
understanding the biology of the
strategy for managing cancer. And I
think that goes back to the training in
the medical schools. These guys these
young physicians need to be trained to
know how to how to wield the power of of
metabolism to facilitate whatever
they're doing. So, whether they're
managing type 2 diabetes, whether
they're managing cardiovascular disease,
all of these things can be improved if
you can bring the patient into
nutritional ketosis, shrink reduce the
inflammation, and then go after these
these tumors or or or conditions in a
much more effective manner. And I think
this has to be brought to the to the to
the to the medical profession. They need
to know how to do this.
Uh otherwise, they're not going to
achieve the outcomes that they would
have they would have wanted.
And why do you think that the American
Medical Association hasn't hasn't taken
all of the all of your work into part of
the saying, wait, we need to change
this.
This has got to change. We need to give
strategies to the physicians that are
already in practice, and we need to give
these strategies to physicians that are
right now in medical school.
Yeah.
Otherwise, it's going to be an endless
loop.
An endless loop of physicians graduating
saying, I haven't heard of it.
I I have no clue what you're talking
about. That must be quite complete
quackery
unless they go and check on the data.
But sometimes your ego doesn't allow you
to go and check on someone else's data.
Yeah, no, you're 100% correct. I I think
it becomes a moral issue.
Um it's a moral issue. And if we have a
strategy based on hard science,
and the evidence is clear. You all you
have to do is go back and look at what
Otto Warburg did and what we're doing
advancing what he's what he's already
said. And and and the literature
scientific literature is filled with
papers showing that glucose and
glutamine are driving these tumors.
I mean, I mean, we know what to do. We
should be able to do it. So, the
question is, why are we not doing it?
What's the what's the the hold up? And a
lot of it has to do with um revenue
generation. I mean, cancer is a
multi-billion dollar industry. Um you
know,
hospitals make a lot of revenue on on
drugs and procedures and insurance
companies. I mean, you're talking about
a
a change for an entire industry. Um
you know, the status quo it's always
it's always uh
you know, hard to change status quo.
Everybody's comfortable
except the cancer patients. But I can't
tell you how many physicians
have come to me
uh asking me to help them either them or
their loved ones in their families.
Uh clearly they're aware that whatever
the system is giving them is not
working.
So, um so, they become until you're the
one on the end of the tumor,
uh you you don't think much about what
I'm saying. Um and a lot of times these
guys in the the oncologists, they have
so many patients, they don't often times
have an have enough time to go back and
look at the literature and ask, you
know, whether they're doing the right
thing or not. And if they were to
administer a therapy not sanctioned by
the American Medical Association or
whatever association dictates what they
should do, they could lose their
license. So, they're comfortable in
doing what they're doing. And you know,
so I I I think I think the most
important thing
the common guy on the street seems to
understand this better than the
or or appreciate what I'm saying more
than the person
in the medical office. And um I I think
it has to be a re-education on the part
of both the patient who now knows that
they can play a major role in the
management of their disease and in the
oncologist who can help the patient know
what to do and when not what not to do
and use the tools that we have
available. So, it's a re-education.
Uh but but here's the situation.
Um
how how long will it take? Because right
now we're we're in our country, we're
sac we're sacrificing
all of these
poor folks uh to horrific medieval
procedures
uh because the system can't change. Um
and then we have to say, is this a moral
issue?
Is it is it moral to continue to do
something that doesn't work uh based on
a flawed theory of what the nature of
the disease is? And we could actually
achieve tremendous benefits if we were
to understand the new theory of what
cancer is and how to manage it.
So, uh you know, there's several
firewalls that prevent this from
happening. Uh the biggest one is the
information gap. Um people not knowing
that this is a mitochondrial metabolic
disease driven by a fermentation
metabolism. And there's a lot a person
can do that to help the physician, to
help the guys in the in the offices
manage the disease.
And I think it just takes time for this.
But you know, we're rock solid in what
we know. We have the best preclinical
model systems. I test all this. And then
I have physicians around the world in
small clinics testing it on their
patients.
And the movie that's going to come out,
the documentary movie called the Cancer
Revolution
is now collecting more and more of these
long-term so-called terminal cancer
patients. And they're all there waving
at you, smiling. And they all should
have been dead. And they've all used
metabolic therapy in one way or another.
And for all of some of the most horrific
types of stage four
terminal cancers. Clearly showing that
these guys are doing well. And the
current strategy of clinical trials, the
way it's done for in the drug
pharmaceutical industry, does not work
for metabolic therapy. In metabolic
therapy, it's diets and drugs in
combination. You can't do the kind of
clinical trial that's being demanded by
the by the industry to test whether
something is working or not. So you have
to throw that out. You can't be using
the traditional clinical trial to
determine if metabolic therapy is
working because it's a combination of
drugs and diets based on a GKI index.
And that could fluctuate. So you have to
constantly monitor this. The patient has
to be a key participant in knowing how
to manage their disease. This does not
fit the shoe of the current clinical
trials that we're doing. So we have to
throw that out. We have to get rid of
that, most of what that is. So that
holds us back because a lot of folks
will say, "Well, I can't do anything
because I haven't seen the data from a
clinical trial." And a lot of times,
even if they see the data from a from a
partial trial, they don't want to
believe it. So you have all kinds of of
things that are are standing in the way
of the paradigm change. And I think I
think it has to be unless people are
comfortable with sacrificing 1,600
people a day. If the society is
comfortable with that, then then then
things will remain unchanged.
Have you performed clinical trials on
ketogenic diets and and the effect on
No, we have my colleagues have done in
small it's called metabolic chemotherapy
supported chemotherapy. I mean, we're
we're inching our way forward
with this. And we published the papers.
Our our colleagues from Istanbul, Turkey
have published several papers on
you know, stage four lung cancers. There
are some papers on breast cancer. There
are there are some on brain cancer. Some
of my colleagues are are doing the
problem with the brain cancer and that's
what we're working on because
glioblastoma is considered terminal for
the majority of people. We don't think
that has to be.
You know,
what the holdback is the main hospitals
will not allow metabolic therapy to go
through the IRB, the institutional
review board. So what what happens? See,
right now they'll do a standard of care
followed by metabolic therapy. But
they won't allow metabolic therapy to be
done without standard of care. Or put it
this way, radiation.
There's no they have to radiate these
poor folks. And I said if you stop
irradiating the brains of these folks,
do metabolic therapy up front, do
surgical debulking, move back into
metabolic therapy, you're going to get
results that are unbelievable. They
won't allow it.
What will happen if they do that? They
they the support what I'm saying. We've
seen preliminary evidence to say that
I'm right. We've seen evidence to say
this is going to work. But it's it's not
done Oh, you have to have 40,000 people
in a clinical trial. What are you crazy?
All you have to do is have a few people
that should have been dead walking
around telling people I'm alive. That
should be motivation enough to say there
should be something done.
Yeah, it's it's so sad that people say
that this is anecdata.
And it's just anecdotes
flowing around and some folks that that
that
I mean
and so it's one of the arguments for
people to say that whatever you're
saying or any other scientist or or
any other topic, it's just anecdata. And
it's the the term that you use
What we have What we have in in brain
cancer
is you cannot design experiments more
conclusive for how fast people die from
standard of care.
I've looked at the data from all the
survival curves around the world and
they're all overlapping beautifully. No
one could design a better experiment for
killing people than using the standard
of care for managing brain cancer. So
when they say, "Oh, the one guy, the
five guys that do live much longer, it's
anecdotal." You know, what we do know is
what you're doing isn't working. And
it's not only that not working, it's
beautifully not working. So when are you
going to get off that kick and start
changing the way you think about things?
Because the science supports what I'm
saying, not what they're doing.
Dr. Seefried, I have another question
and it's something that has been taking
my my attention recently. I've been
studying the role of
high insulin levels and insulin
resistance on
on all the metabolic conditions and all
the metabolic diseases and everything
else and diabetes and obesity and
polycystic ovarian syndrome and
whatever.
But it has caught my attention the role
of insulin as a growth factor which and
we already know that it it is a growth
factor.
But what's the role with everything that
you're mentioning and that you said
before, what's the role of insulin that
we already know that it's very important
as a growth factor for several cancers
such as most of the most common is colon
cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer,
ovarian cancer.
What's the role on insulin on your
theory and all on things that you found?
Yeah, well, you have to say what what is
insulin respond to?
What does it do?
Yeah.
So you take insulin go
take sugar down insulin goes down.
A tumor cell
A tumor cell does not
Yeah, just to bring information for
people. Yeah, it
tumor cell does not eat insulin.
Insulin is a
the the insulin is a facilitator for
glucose metabolism.
So tumor eat will eat glucose.
So
insulin facilitates glucose metabolism.
So clearly if I lower my blood sugar
down, that's what happens when you when
you
do water only fasting. You know, after
about 7 to 12 days, I mean, insulin
levels are really really low because
glucose is really really low.
So clearly insulin
in most people under normal
physiological conditions responds to
blood sugar. And then you as insulin
goes down,
glucagon,
the other hormone, the balancing hormone
goes up. And you and you mobilize fats
out of your out of your adipose tissue
and they get mobilized brought to the
liver and the liver makes ketone bodies
out of it and then the brain starts
burning ketone bodies. So and insulin
levels are low. And gluconeogenesis is a
process by which we start to metabolize
fatty triglyceride backbone, glycerol
backbones and certain
amino acids can be made into glucose in
the liver. But this is an energy
requiring process. So you you burn
energy to get energy and you get a new
homeostatic state, metabolic
homeostasis. Insulin is in low
conditions. So yeah, I mean, in a lot of
those cases, diabetes, cancer and all
this, blood sugar is high. Insulin is
high. So insulin is driving the sugar
into the tumor cells. And and and into
the
general enhancing metabolic activity. So
so
you know, I look at when you do water
fasting and you do keep your GKI down,
we clearly showed that the glucose
ketone index is linked to the lower
insulin levels as well.
So
the glucose goes down, the insulin goes
down. We published a nice paper on this
looking at different diet effects in
mice under different fully fed
conditions under calorie restricted
conditions. And clearly when calorie
restriction, whatever you're eating,
whether it's a high fat diet, high
protein diet, everything insulin and
glucose all go down under the restricted
conditions.
So
you know, it's all it's all linked to
the the global physiological system.
Dr. Seefried,
this has been amazing. I really really
admire your your work and thank you for
your time.
I want to ask you one last question.
Or one last message. We have thousands
of people looking at what what you're
saying and I think that your research
and your work
and all that data that is that is all
the clinical data that is out there
really needs to be heard by by
practitioners, by people, by everyone
knowing and it's the only way which we
can shift this
to be approved by all the medical
associations all over the world because
it really needs to be approved.
What would be
a message that you could
knowing that cancer is the second
leading cause of death all over the
world and you just pointed out that
China is number one.
What would be that final message for
people because we everyone thinks that
cancer comes out from nowhere.
And people really they want to know that
that that tool hidden on the holy grail
that they're going to find in order to
prevent and to in order to have a good
prevention and a good treatment for
cancer. We you've said it all over the
video, but just to make it a final like
a short message, what would be that that
you would like to give people in order
for them to know how to prevent and how
to have a good treatment for cancer?
Well, I think um
prevention of course, we we know what we
need to do.
You know, reduce our exposure to um,
highly processed carbohydrate foods,
toxic environments, of course, bad
water, bad air, and all this.
Um, where toxins can enter our body from
a variety of different of of you know,
diseases and things like this. But,
yeah, but but as I said, it's hard.
Um, as I said, I I don't think most
people I think if they knew the risk
factors for cancer and why and how, they
might do a better job at trying to avoid
this. I think I think governments could
do a better job in in advertising uh,
they did a really good job on
advertising how bad cigarettes were for
people.
And um, and smoking, of course, went way
way down uh, as the result of that.
And um,
uh, I think they could probably do the
same thing. But, you have to be careful
because you're you're you're you're
touching the toes of a of large
industries. Food industries and these
kinds of things where they're making
billions and billions of dollars on
selling uh, highly processed
carbohydrate foods. And the federal
government now would come out and say,
"No, it might not be a good idea to eat
too much of this stuff."
And then you get everybody angry at you.
Uh, the the industries that are
supporting the politicians
all of a sudden
uh, the government again can't say
anything cuz they're kind of uh, choke
hold by the by the industry.
Um, but but uh,
at least they they should have some
uh, recognition. And they put they put
uh, a warning on a on a can of beer uh,
telling you that it could harm you. Uh,
they put a warning on a pack of
cigarettes. Um, they could put a warning
on a uh, on on certain highly processed
foods. Uh, they could certainly do that
or at least bring awareness to the
problem that what we that we know. As
far as far as managing cancer, we know
now that it's a metabolic disease. That
alone allows the cancer patient uh, to
recognize that they become an active
participant in the management of their
disease. They don't they don't uh,
that's another really important issue. I
can't tell you how many cancer patients
would love to be doing something to help
uh, rather than just sitting there and
being infused with a toxic chemical or
having some part of their body targeted
with a radiation beam. They they they
want to they want to pay play a role in
the management of their disease and
metabolic therapy provides that that
activity for them. So, uh, again, it's
it's just simply education, getting the
word out, having people know that there
are options to what what we're currently
doing and that the outcomes could be
massively improved uh, as the result of
this. So, um, we're working hard to do
this. I keep publishing papers again and
again. Uh, I have to convince my
scientist colleagues
with hard really hard evidence that uh,
that goes into the metabolic mud of the
problem, uh, the detailed biochemistry
of what of what we need to show in the
scientific community which they're
demanding to to have that information.
Uh, mechanisms of action. Uh, that I
have to do and I am doing it.
Uh, but then there's the practicality
of, you know, how do we take all this
science and bring it into the clinic and
having it improve the outcome of a
patient. That's where I work with
clinicians
uh, on this aspect of it. And uh, we
just keep publishing case reports of
these so-called terminal cancer patients
uh, and show that they're doing fine. We
published a big one on breast cancer. We
did one on lung cancer. We did one on
brain cancer. And we're doing more and
more of these. And it works in dogs,
too. You I I published a big paper on on
mast cell cancer resolved in a dog using
metabolic therapy.
So, clearly
uh, this stuff works if you do it the
right way. And I think people should be
encouraged. Uh, there's hope. Uh, there
there's a light at the end of this
tunnel. I I just don't know how long we
have to walk in the dark before we get
to the light.
So, it just takes time.
Anyway, that that's where it is.
One final question.
Uh, something I forgot to ask you at the
very beginning. Some people say that
um,
toxins have nothing to do with cancer
because when you're eating artificial
sweeteners, artificial colors,
artificial uh, flavors, when you're
eating uh, TBHQ
which comes from petroleum to make as a
as a antioxidant or BHA or BHT and all
these chemicals
that it's only related with the dose.
As as uh, the old toxicology from
Paracelsus saying that the poison is in
the dose. And they say, "Well, I think
that the toxin the toxicity is in the
dose
and on the frequency because you can you
can eat something at a very low dose and
make it a
high frequency and it's going to
eventually become something potentially
uh,
dangerous.
You've said that cancer is a metabolic
disease.
But, do you think that there are toxins
that really could lead into a
cell to start
uh,
turning into a cancer cell and then
becoming uh, something that has a
metabolic disease and all the effects
that you've just pointed out, but maybe
the the the cause of the or the initial
cause for that cell
turning into a cancerous cell could be a
toxin?
What we have what we have shown and what
Warburg had clearly shown
and getting back to your dosage dosage
issue. If the dose of the toxin is too
high, it kills the cell.
Um, and you can never get a cancer cell
from a dead cell.
So, it it's accumulative low doses uh,
of a of a provocative toxin that would
damage the ability of the cell to
generate energy through oxidative
phosphorylation.
You have to realize that the control of
the cell cycle and the growth of the
cell resides in the mitochondria itself.
So, that's the organelle that allows the
cell to maintain a differentiated state,
a quiescent state doing this what the
cell would normally
uh, have been designed uh, through
evolutionary processes to do. When that
when that organelle becomes chronically
disrupted by any kind of a toxin. And
when you look at what toxins do, you can
look at the mitochondria and see them
bio fluor they they they fluoresce. So,
toxins get actually into the
mitochondria chronically. As I said, if
it's too acute, you'll kill the cell.
It's got to be a chronic assault on the
energy metabolism of that cell where the
cell gradually loses the ability to
maintain the metabolic homeostasis
causing the cell. Now, here's an
interesting point. Only cells that can
switch from gradually transition
gradually transition from respiration to
fermentation can become a cancer cell.
We rarely if ever get cancer in neurons
of the brain. Neurons of the brain can't
transition to fermentation. We rarely if
ever get cancer cells in cardiac
myocytes, heart cells. They don't they
can't make the transition to a
fermentation metabolism. So, it becomes
clear. Only cells that can transition
from respiration to fermentation can
become dysregulated cancer cells. So, we
already know that it's all related to
the energy metabolism. So, um, yeah, so
it's dosage for sure, but it's got to be
chronic. It can't be acute. And there I
and the nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments clearly show that it cannot
be it is not a nuclear driven process.
It's a mitochondrial driven process. In
other words, the cytoplasm, not the
nucleus, is responsible for the
dysregulated growth.
Dr. Seyfried, thank you so much.
This has been absolutely amazing. Thank
you so much. Thank you for your time.
Thank you for your generosity and thank
you for your work. Your work has been
Thank you. inspiring thousands of people
that thousands of physicians such as
myself. I loved your book when when I
read it and I I loved every single one
of your papers which I've tried to to
read them all and and
please continue with your work. And if
there's anything anything at all
that I can do and with and
that it's within my powers to
Well, you can you can notify people that
um, the the the the our work is
supported from largely from philanthropy
and private foundations.
And the Travis Christofferson's
Foundation for cancer metabolic therapy
supports our work. So, people people if
they feel they want to be part of the
movement, the change uh, that's coming
uh, they can some folks, you know,
they're not interested in making a
billion dollars on some new thing. They
just want to know that they've
contributed to a paradigm shift and that
alone makes them feel better about their
own life. Um, and we and we're very open
and appreciative of all those who who
support our work. And we acknowledge
them in the scientific papers. We when
we publish papers, we acknowledge folks
who've contributed to our research. And
that that itself is a reward for those
folks that want to support what we do.
So, it's happening. Uh, more and more
people are coming on board with this.
And we thank them.
Uh, and thank you for for having me on
your on your program today.
Thank you, Dr. Seyfried. And if you can
share with us maybe a link that we can
maybe leave it here on the comments
afterwards
maybe during the day we can leave it
here so people can go. And if they want
to support your work and and all of your
team, so they can do it so we can have
this
all this information and all this
knowledge and all this science uh,
helping
uh, the second leading cause of death
which is cancer. So, thank you so much.
Yeah, thank you.
Wish you a wonderful rest of your week
and uh, hope you I'll see See
Yeah, thank you very much, Carlos. Nice
being here.
Thank you so much. Bye-bye.
Bye.